(a) Where the federal agency circulated the EIS or finding of no significant impact for public review as broadly as state or local law may require and gave notice meeting the standards in Section 15072(a) or 15087(a), the lead agency under CEQA may use the federal document in the place of an EIR or negative declaration without recirculating the federal document for public review. One review and comment period is enough. Prior to using the federal document in this situation, the lead agency shall give notice that it will use the federal document in the place of an EIR or negative declaration and that it believes that the federal document meets the requirements of CEQA. The notice shall be given in the same manner as a notice of the public availability of a draft EIR under Section 15087. (b) If an EIS has been prepared and filed pursuant to NEPA on the closure and reuse of a military base and the Lead Agency decides that the EIS does not fully meet the requirements of CEQA or has not been circulated for public review as state and local law may require, the Lead Agency responsible for preparation of an EIR for a reuse plan for the same base may proceed in the following manner:

(1) Prepare and circulate a notice of preparation pursuant to Section 15082. The notice shall include a description of the reuse plan, a copy of the EIS, an address to which to send comments, and the deadline for submitting comments. The notice shall state that the lead agency intends to utilize the EIS as a draft EIR and requests comments on whether the EIS provides adequate information to serve as a draft EIR and what specific additional information, if any, is necessary. (2) Upon the close of the comment period, the lead agency may proceed with preparation and circulation for comment of the draft EIR for the reuse plan. To the greatest extent feasible, the lead agency shall avoid duplication and utilize the EIS or information in the EIS as all or part of the draft EIR. The EIR shall be completed in compliance with the provisions of CEQA.
