(a) Draft EIRs and negative declarations to be reviewed by state agencies shall be submitted to the State Clearinghouse, 1400 Tenth Street, Sacramento, California 95814. For U.S. Mail, submit to P.O. Box 3044, Sacramento, California 95812-3044. When submitting such documents to the State Clearinghouse, the public agency shall include, in addition to the printed copy, a copy of the document in electronic form on a diskette or by electronic mail transmission, if available. (b) The following environmental documents shall be submitted to the State Clearinghouse for review by state agencies: (1) Draft EIRs and negative declarations prepared by a state agency where such agency is a lead agency. (2) Draft EIRs and negative declarations prepared by a public agency where a state agency is a responsible agency, trustee agency, or otherwise has jurisdiction by law with respect to the project. (3) Draft EIRs and negative declarations on projects identified in Section 15206 as being of statewide, regional, or areawide significance.

(4) Draft EIRs, environmental assessments, and findings of no significant impact prepared pursuant to NEPA, the Federal Guidelines (Title 40 CFR, Part 1500, commencing with Section 1500.1). (c) Public agencies may send environmental documents to the State Clearinghouse for review where a state agency has special expertise with regard to the environmental impacts involved. The areas of statutory authorities of state agencies are identified in Appendix B. Any such environmental documents submitted to the State Clearinghouse shall include, in addition to the printed copy, a copy of the document in electronic format, on a diskette or by electronic mail transmission, if available. (d) When an EIR or negative declaration is submitted to the State Clearinghouse for review, the review period set by the lead agency shall be at least as long as the period provided in the state review system operated by the State Clearinghouse. In the state review system, the normal review period is 45 days for EIRs and 30 days for negative declarations. In exceptional circumstances, the State Clearinghouse may set shorter review periods when requested by the lead agency.

(e) A sufficient number of copies of an EIR, negative declaration, or mitigated negative declaration, shall be submitted to the State Clearinghouse for review and comment by state agencies. The notice of completion form required by the State Clearinghouse must be submitted together with the copies of the EIR and may be submitted together with the copies of the negative declaration or mitigated negative declaration. The notice of completion form required by the State Clearinghouse is included in Appendix C. If the lead agency uses the on-line process for submittal of the notice of completion form to the State Clearinghouse, the form generated from the Internet shall satisfy this requirement (refer to www.ceqanet.ca.gov). (f) While the lead agency is encouraged to contact the regional and district offices of state responsible agencies, the lead agency must, in all cases, submit documents to the State Clearinghouse for distribution in order to comply with the review requirements of this section.
