The following programs of state regulatory agencies have been certified by the Secretary for Resources as meeting the requirements of Section 21080.5: (a) The regulation of timber harvesting operations by the California Department of Forestry and the State Board of Forestry pursuant to Chapter 8, commencing with Section 4511 of Part 2 of Division 4 of the Public Resources Code. (b) The regulatory program of the Fish and Game Commission pursuant to the Fish and Game Code. (c) The regulatory program of the California Coastal Commission and the regional coastal commissions dealing with the consideration and granting of coastal development permits under the California Coastal Act of 1976, Division 20 (commencing with Section 30000) of the Public Resources Code. (d) That portion of the regulatory program of the Air Resources Board which involves the adoption, approval, amendment, or repeal of standards, rules, regulations, or plans to be used in the regulatory program for the protection and enhancement of ambient air quality in California.

(e) The regulatory program of the State Board of Forestry in adopting, amending, or repealing standards, rules, regulations, or plans under the Z'berg-Nejedly Forest Practice Act, Chapter 8 (commencing with Section 4511) of Part 2 of Division 4 of the Public Resources Code. (f) The program of the California Coastal Commission involving the preparation, approval, and certification of local coastal programs as provided in Sections 30500 through 30522 of the Public Resources Code. (g) The Water Quality Control (Basin)/208 Planning Program of the State Water Resources Control Board and the Regional Water Quality Control Boards. (h) The permit and planning programs of the San Francisco Bay Conservation and Development Commission under the McAteer-Petris Act, Title 7.2 (commencing with Section 66600) of the Government Code; and the planning program of the San Francisco Bay Conservation and Development Commission under the Suisun Marsh Preservation Act, Division 19 (commencing with Section 29000) of the Public Resources Code.

(i) The pesticide regulatory program administered by the Department of Pesticide Regulation and the county agricultural commissioners insofar as the program consists of: (1) The registration, evaluation, and classification of pesticides. (2) The adoption, amendment, or repeal of regulations and standards for the licensing and regulation of pesticide dealers and pest control operators and advisors. (3) The adoption, amendment, or repeal of regulations for standards dealing with the monitoring of pesticides and of the human health and environmental effects of pesticides. (4) The regulation of the use of pesticides in agricultural and urban areas of the state through the permit system administered by the county agricultural commissioners. (j) The power plant site certification program of the State Energy Resources Conservation and Development Commission under Chapter 6 of the Warren-Alquist Act, commencing with Public Resources Code Section 25500. (k) The regulatory program of the State Water Resources Control Board to establish instream beneficial use protection programs.

(l) That portion of the regulatory program of the South Coast Air Quality Management District which involves the adoption, amendment, and repeal of regulations pursuant to the provisions of the Health and Safety Code. (m) The program of the Delta Protection Commission involving the preparation and adoption of a Resource Management Plan for the Sacramento-San Joaquin Delta (Pub. Resources Code § 29760 ff.), and the Commission's review and action on general plan amendments proposed by local governments to make their plans consistent with the provisions of the Commission's Resource Management Plan (Pub. Resources Code § 29763.5). (n) The program of the Department of Fish and Game for the adoption of regulations under the Fish and Game Code. (o) The program of the Department of Fish and Game implementing the incidental take permit application process under the California Endangered Species Act (“CESA”), Fish and Game Code sections 2080 and 2081, and specifically the regulation governing the Department of Fish and Game's role as a “lead agency” when issuing incidental take permits, found at California Code of Regulations, Title 14, section 783.5(d).

(p) The regulatory program of the Department of Fish and Game for review and approval of voluntary local programs for routine and ongoing agricultural activities, as authorized by the California Endangered Species Act, Fish and Game Code section 2086.
