(a) The lead agency shall consult with and request comments on the draft EIR from: (1) Responsible agencies, (2) Trustee agencies with resources affected by the project, and (3) Any other state, federal, and local agencies which have jurisdiction by law with respect to the project or which exercise authority over resources which may be affected by the project, including water agencies consulted pursuant to section 15083.5. (4) Any city or county which borders on a city or county within which the project is located. (5) For a project of statewide, regional, or areawide significance, the transportation planning agencies and public agencies which have transportation facilities within their jurisdictions which could be affected by the project. “Transportation facilities” includes: major local arterials and public transit within five miles of the project site, and freeways, highways and rail transit service within 10 miles of the project site. The lead agency should also consult with public transit agencies with facilities within one-half mile of the proposed project.

(6) For a state lead agency when the EIR is being prepared for a highway or freeway project, the California Air Resources Board as to the air pollution impact of the potential vehicular use of the highway or freeway and if a non-attainment area, the local air quality management district for a determination of conformity with the air quality management plan. (7) For a subdivision project located within one mile of a facility of the State Water Resources Development System, the California Department of Water Resources. (b) The lead agency may consult directly with: (1) Any person who has special expertise with respect to any environmental impact involved, (2) Any member of the public who has filed a written request for notice with the lead agency or the clerk of the governing body. (3) Any person identified by the applicant whom the applicant believes will be concerned with the environmental effects of the project.

(c) A responsible agency or other public agency shall only make substantive comments regarding those activities involved in the project that are within an area of expertise of the agency or which are required to be carried out or approved by the responsible agency. Those comments shall be supported by specific documentation. (d) Prior to the close of the public review period, a responsible agency or trustee agency which has identified what that agency considers to be significant environmental effects shall advise the lead agency of those effects. As to those effects relevant to its decision, if any, on the project, the responsible or trustee agency shall either submit to the lead agency complete and detailed performance objectives for mitigation measures addressing those effects or refer the lead agency to appropriate, readily available guidelines or reference documents concerning mitigation measures. If the responsible or trustee agency is not aware of mitigation measures that address identified effects, the responsible or trustee agency shall so state.
