CEQA does not apply to any development project that meets the following criteria. (a) The project meets the threshold criteria set forth in section 15192. (b) The project site meets the following size criteria: (1) The project site is located in an area with a population density of at least 1,000 persons per square mile and is two acres or less in area; or (2) The project site is located in an area with a population density of less than 1,000 persons per square mile and is five acres or less in area. (c) The project meets the following requirements regarding location and number of units. (1) If the proposed development project is located on a project site within city limits or in a census-defined place, it must meet the following requirements: (A) The proposed project location must be within one of the following: 1. Incorporated city limits; or 2. A census defined place with a minimum population density of at least 5,000 persons per square mile; or

3. A census-defined place with a minimum population density of at least 1,000 persons per square mile, unless a public agency that is carrying out or approving the project determines that there is a reasonable possibility that the project, if completed, would have a significant effect on the environment due to unusual circumstances or that the cumulative impacts of successive projects of the same type in the same area, over time, would be significant. (B) The proposed development project must be located on a project site that is adjacent, on at least two sides, to land that has been developed. (C) The proposed development project must meet either of the following requirements: 1. Consist of not more than 45 units, or 2. Consist of housing for a total of 45 or fewer agricultural employees if the housing consists of dormitories, barracks, or other group living facilities. (2) If the proposed development project is located on a project site zoned for general agricultural use, it must meet either of the following requirements: (A) Consist of not more than 20 units, or

(B) Consist of housing for a total of 20 or fewer agricultural employees if the housing consists of dormitories, barracks, or other group living facilities. (d) The project meets the following requirements regarding provision of housing for agricultural employees: (1) The project must consist of the construction, conversion, or use of residential housing for agricultural employees. (2) If the project lacks public financial assistance, then: (A) The project must be affordable to lower income households; and (B) The developer of the development project must provide sufficient legal commitments to the appropriate local agency to ensure the continued availability and use of the housing units for lower income households for a period of at least 15 years. (3) If public financial assistance exists for the project, then: (A) The project must be housing for very low, low-, or moderate-income households; and (B) The developer of the development project must provide sufficient legal commitments to the appropriate local agency to ensure the continued availability and use of the housing units for low- and moderate-income households for a period of at least 15 years.
