(a) General. Certain residential, commercial and mixed-use projects that are consistent with a specific plan adopted pursuant to Title 7, Division 1, Chapter 3, Article 8 of the Government Code are exempt from CEQA, as described in subdivisions (b) and (c) of this section. (b) Projects Proximate to Transit. (1) Eligibility. A residential or mixed-use project, or a project with a floor area ratio of at least 0.75 on commercially-zoned property, including any required subdivision or zoning approvals, is exempt if the project satisfies the following criteria: (A) It is located within a transit priority area as defined in Public Resources Code section 21099(a)(7); (B) It is consistent with a specific plan for which an environmental impact report was certified; and

(C) It is consistent with the general use designation, density, building intensity, and applicable policies specified for the project area in either a sustainable communities strategy or an alternative planning strategy for which the State Air Resources Board has accepted the determination that the sustainable communities strategy or the alternative planning strategy would achieve the applicable greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets. (2) Limitation. Additional environmental review shall not be required for a project described in this subdivision unless one of the events in section 15162 occurs with respect to that project. (3) Statute of Limitations. A challenge to a project described in this subdivision is subject to the statute of limitations periods described in section 15112. (c) Residential Projects Implementing Specific Plans. (1) Eligibility. Where a public agency has prepared an EIR on a specific plan after January 1, 1980, a residential project undertaken pursuant to and in conformity to that specific plan is exempt from CEQA if the project meets the requirements of this section.

Residential projects covered by this section include but are not limited to land subdivisions, zoning changes, and residential planned unit developments. (2) Limitation. If after the adoption of the specific plan, an event described in Section 15162 occurs, the exemption in this subdivision shall not apply until the city or county which adopted the specific plan completes a subsequent EIR or a supplement to an EIR on the specific plan. The exemption provided by this section shall again be available to residential projects after the lead agency has filed a Notice of Determination on the specific plan as reconsidered by the subsequent EIR or supplement to the EIR. (3) Statute of Limitations. A court action challenging the approval of a project under this subdivision for failure to prepare a supplemental EIR shall be commenced within 30 days after the lead agency's decision to carry out or approve the project in accordance with the specific plan.

(d) Fees. The lead agency has authority to charge fees to applicants for projects which benefit from this section. The fees shall be calculated in the aggregate to defray but not to exceed the cost of developing and adopting the specific plan including the cost of preparing the EIR.
