(a) Except as set forth in subdivision (b), CEQA does not apply to any development project that meets the following criteria: (1) The project meets the threshold criteria set forth in section 15192; provided that with respect to the requirement in section 15192(b) regarding community-level environmental review, such review must be certified or adopted within five years of the date that the lead agency deems the application for the project to be complete pursuant to Section 65943 of the Government Code. (2) The project meets both of the following size criteria: (A) The site of the project is not more than four acres in total area. (B) The project does not include any single level building that exceeds 100,000 square feet. (3) The project meets both of the following requirements regarding location: (A) The project is a residential project on an infill site. (B) The project is within one-half mile of a major transit stop. (4) The project meets both of the following requirements regarding number of units: (A) The project does not contain more than 100 residential units.

(B) The project promotes higher density infill housing. The lead agency may establish its own criteria for determining whether the project promotes higher density infill housing except in either of the following two circumstances: 1. A project with a density of at least 20 units per acre is conclusively presumed to promote higher density infill housing. 2. A project with a density of at least 10 units per acre and a density greater than the average density of the residential properties within 1,500 feet shall be presumed to promote higher density infill housing unless the preponderance of the evidence demonstrates otherwise. (5) The project meets the following requirements regarding availability of affordable housing: The project would result in housing units being made available to moderate, low or very low income families as set forth in either A or B below:

(A) The project meets one of the following criteria, and the project developer provides sufficient legal commitments to the appropriate local agency to ensure the continued availability and use of the housing units as set forth below at monthly housing costs determined pursuant to paragraph (3) of subdivision (h) of Section 65589.5 of the Government Code. 1. At least 10 percent of the housing is sold to families of moderate income, or 2. Not less than 10 percent of the housing is rented to families of low income, or 3. Not less than 5 percent of the housing is rented to families of very low income. (B) If the project does not result in housing units being available as set forth in subdivision (A) above, then the project developer has paid or will pay in-lieu fees pursuant to a local ordinance in an amount sufficient to result in the development of an equivalent number of units that would otherwise be required pursuant to subparagraph (A). (b) A project that otherwise meets the criteria set forth in subdivision (a) is not exempt from CEQA if any of the following occur:

(1) There is a reasonable possibility that the project will have a project-specific, significant effect on the environment due to unusual circumstances. (2) Substantial changes with respect to the circumstances under which the project is being undertaken that are related to the project have occurred since community-level environmental review was certified or adopted. (3) New information becomes available regarding the circumstances under which the project is being undertaken and that is related to the project that was not known, and could not have been known at the time that community-level environmental review was certified or adopted. If a project is not exempt from CEQA due to subdivision (b), the analysis of the environmental effects of the project covered in the EIR or the negative declaration shall be limited to an analysis of the project-specific effect of the projects and any effects identified pursuant to subdivisions (b)(2) and (3).
