(a) CEQA establishes a special requirement for certain school projects, as well as certain projects near schools, to ensure that potential health impacts resulting from exposure to hazardous materials,wastes, and substances will be carefully examined and disclosed in a negative declaration or EIR, and that the lead agency will consult with other agencies in this regard. (b) Before certifying an EIR or adopting a negative declaration for a project located within one-fourth mile of a school involves the construction or alteration of a facility that might reasonably be anticipated to emit hazardous air emissions, or that would handle an extremely hazardous substance or a mixture containing extremely hazardous substances in a quantity equal to or greater than the state threshold quantity specified in subdivision (j) of Section 25532 of the Health and Safety Code, that may impose a health or safety hazard to persons who would attend or would be employed at the school, the lead agency must do both of the following: (1) Consult with the affected school district or districts regarding the potential impact of the project on the school; and

(2) Notify the affected school district or districts of the project, in writing, not less than 30 days prior to approval or certification of the negative declaration or EIR. (c) When the project involves the purchase of a school site or the construction of a secondary or elementary school by a school district, the negative declaration or EIR prepared for the project shall not be adopted or certified unless: (1) The negative declaration, mitigated negative declaration, or EIR contains sufficient information to determine whether the property is: (A) The site of a current or former hazardous waste or solid waste disposal facility and, if so, whether wastes have been removed. (B) A hazardous substance release site identified by the Department of Toxic Substances Control in a current list adopted pursuant to Section 25356 of the Health and Safety Code for removal or remedial action pursuant to Chapter 6.8 (commencing with Section 25300) of Division 20 of the Health and Safety Code.

(C) The site of one or more buried or above ground pipelines which carry hazardous substances, acutely hazardous materials, or hazardous wastes, as defined in Division 20 of the Health and Safety Code. This does not include a natural gas pipeline used only to supply the school or neighborhood. (D) Within 500 feet of the edge of the closest traffic lane of a freeway or other busy traffic corridor.

(2) The lead agency has notified in writing and consulted with the county or city administering agency (as designated pursuant to Section 25502 of the Health and Safety Code) and with any air pollution control district or air quality management district having jurisdiction, to identify facilities within one-fourth mile of the proposed school site which might reasonably be anticipated to emit hazardous emissions or handle hazardous or acutely hazardous material, substances, or waste. The notice shall include a list of the school sites for which information is sought. Each agency or district receiving notice shall provide the requested information and provide a written response to the lead agency within 30 days of receiving the notification. If any such agency or district fails to respond within that time, the negative declaration or EIR shall be conclusively presumed to comply with this section as to the area of responsibility of that agency. (3) The school district makes, on the basis of substantial evidence, one of the following written findings: (A) Consultation identified none of the facilities specified in paragraph (2).

(B) The facilities specified in paragraph (2) exist, but one of the following conditions applies: 1. The health risks from the facilities do not and will not constitute an actual or potential endangerment of public health to persons who would attend or be employed at the proposed school. 2. Corrective measures required under an existing order by another agency having jurisdiction over the facilities will, before the school is occupied, mitigate all chronic or accidental hazardous air emissions to levels that do not constitute any actual or potential public health danger to persons who would attend or be employed at the proposed school. When the school district board makes such a finding, it shall also make a subsequent finding, prior to occupancy of the school, that the emissions have been so mitigated.

3. For a school site with boundary that is within 500 feet of the edge of the closest traffic lane of a freeway or other busy traffic corridor, the school district determines, through a health risk assessment pursuant to subdivision (b)(2) of Section 44360 of the Health and Safety Code, based on appropriate air dispersion modeling, and after considering any potential mitigation measures, that the air quality at the proposed site is such that neither short-term nor long-term exposure poses significant health risks to pupils. (C) The facilities or other pollution sources specified in subsection (c)(2) exist, but conditions in subdivisions (c)(3)(B)(1), (2) or (3) cannot be met, and the school district is unable to locate an alternative site that is suitable due to a severe shortage of sites that meet the requirements in subdivision (a) of Section 17213 of the Education Code. If the school district makes this finding, the school board shall prepare an EIR and adopt a statement of overriding considerations. This finding shall be in addition to any findings which may be required pursuant to Sections 15074, 15091 or 15093.

(d) When the lead agency has carried out the consultation required by paragraph (2) of subdivision (b), the negative declaration or EIR shall be conclusively presumed to comply with this section, notwithstanding any failure of the consultation to identify an existing facility. (e) The following definitions shall apply for the purposes of this section: (1) “Acutely hazardous material,” is as defined in 22 C.C.R. § 66260.10. (2) “Administering agency,” is as defined in Section 25501 of the Health and Safety Code. (3) “Extremely hazardous substance,” is as defined in subdivision (g)(2)(B) of Section 25532 of the Health and Safety Code and listed in Section 2770.5, Table 3, of Title 19 of the California Code of Regulations. (4) “Facilities” means any source with a potential to use, generate, emit or discharge hazardous air pollutants, including, but not limited to, pollutants that meet the definition of a hazardous substance, and whose process or operation is identified as an emission source pursuant to the most recent list of source categories published by the California Air Resources Board.

(5) “Freeway or other busy traffic corridors” means those roadways that, on an average day, have traffic in excess of 50,000 vehicles in a rural area, as defined in Section 50101 of the Health and Safety Code, and 100,000 vehicles in an urban area, as defined in Section 50104.7 of the Health and Safety Code. (6) “Handle” means to use, generate, process, produce, package, treat, store, emit, discharge, or dispose of a hazardous material in any fashion. (7) “Hazardous air emissions,” is as defined in subdivisions (a) to (f), inclusive, of Section 44321 of the Health and Safety Code. (8) “Hazardous substance,” is as defined in Section 25316 of the Health and Safety Code. (9) “Hazardous waste,” is as defined in Section 25117 of the Health and Safety Code. (10) “Hazardous waste disposal site,” is as defined in Section 25114 of the Health and Safety Code.
