A lead agency shall include in a Master EIR all of the following: (a) A detailed discussion as required by Section 15126. (b) A description of anticipated subsequent projects that are within the scope of the Master EIR, including information with regard to the kind, size, intensity, and location of the subsequent projects, including, but not limited to all of the following: (1) The specific type of project anticipated to be undertaken such as a single family development, office-commercial development, sewer line installation or other activities. (2) The maximum and minimum intensity of any anticipated subsequent project, such as the number of residences in a residential development, and with regard to a public works facility, its anticipated capacity and service area. (3) The anticipated location for any subsequent development projects, and, consistent with the rule of reason set forth in Section 15126.6(f), alternative locations for any such projects.

(4) A capital outlay or capital improvement program, or other scheduling or implementing device that governs the submission and approval of subsequent projects, or an explanation as to why practical planning considerations render it impractical to identify any such program or scheduling or other device at the time of preparing the Master EIR. (c) A description of potential impacts of anticipated projects for which there is not sufficient information reasonably available to support a full assessment of potential impacts in the Master EIR. This description shall not be construed as a limitation on the impacts which may be considered in a focused EIR.

(d) Where a Master EIR is prepared in connection with a project identified in subdivision (b)(1) of section 15175, the anticipated subsequent projects included within a Master EIR may consist of later planning approvals, including parcel-specific approvals, consistent with the overall planning decision (e.g., general plan, or specific plan, or redevelopment plan) for which the Master EIR has been prepared. Such subsequent projects shall be adequately described for purposes of subdivision (b) or of this section (15176) if the Master EIR and any other documents embodying or relating to the overall planning decision identify the land use designations and the permissible densities and intensities of use for the affected parcel(s). The proponents of such subsequent projects shall not be precluded from relying on the Master EIR solely because that document did not specifically identify or list, by name, the subsequent project as ultimately proposed for approval.
