For purposes of this Article 12.5 only, the following words shall have the following meanings: (a) “Agricultural employee” means a person engaged in agriculture, including: farming in all its branches, and, among other things, includes: (1) the cultivation and tillage of the soil, (2) dairying, (3) the production, cultivation, growing, and harvesting of any agricultural or horticultural commodities (including commodities defined as agricultural commodities in Section 1141j(g) of Title 12 of the United States Code), (4) the raising of livestock, bees, furbearing animals, or poultry, and (5) any practices (including any forestry or lumbering operations) performed by a farmer or on a farm as an incident to or in conjunction with such farming operations, including preparation for market and delivery to storage or to market or to carriers for transportation to market. This definition is subject to the following limitations:

This definition shall not be construed to include any person other than those employees excluded from the coverage of the National Labor Relations Act, as amended, as agricultural employees, pursuant to Section 2(3) of the Labor Management Relations Act (Section 152(3), Title 29, United States Code), and Section 3(f) of the Fair Labor Standards Act (Section 203(f), Title 29, United States Code). This definition shall not apply, or be construed to apply, to any employee who performs work to be done at the site of the construction, alteration, painting, or repair of a building, structure, or other work (as these terms have been construed under Section 8(e) of the Labor Management Relations Act, 29 U.S.C. Sec. 158(e)) or logging or timber-clearing operations in initial preparation of land for farming, or who does land leveling or only land surveying for any of the above. As used in this definition, “land leveling” shall include only major land moving operations changing the contour of the land, but shall not include annual or seasonal tillage or preparation of land for cultivation.

(b) “Census-defined place” means a specific unincorporated land area within boundaries determined by the United States Census Bureau in the most recent decennial census. (c) “Community-level environmental review” means either of the following: (1) An EIR certified on any of the following: (A) A general plan. (B) A revision or update to the general plan that includes at least the land use and circulation elements. (C) An applicable community plan. (D) An applicable specific plan. (E) A housing element of the general plan, if the environmental impact report analyzed the environmental effects of the density of the proposed project. (2) A negative declaration or mitigated negative declaration adopted as a subsequent environmental review document, following and based upon an EIR on a general plan, an applicable community plan, or an applicable specific plan, provided that the subsequent environmental review document is allowed by CEQA following a master EIR or a program EIR, or is required pursuant to Section 21166. (d) “Developed open space” means land that meets all of the following criteria: (1) land that is publicly owned, or financed in whole or in part by public funds,

(2) is generally open to, and available for use by, the public, and (3) is predominantly lacking in structural development other than structures associated with open spaces, including, but not limited to, playgrounds, swimming pools, ball fields, enclosed child play areas, and picnic facilities. Developed open space may include land that has been designated for acquisition by a public agency for developed open space but does not include lands acquired by public funds dedicated to the acquisition of land for housing purposes. (e) “Infill site” means a site in an urbanized area that meets one of the following criteria: (1) The site has been previously developed for qualified urban uses; or (2) The site has not been developed for qualified urban uses but all immediately adjacent parcels are developed with existing qualified urban uses; or (3) The site has not been developed for qualified urban uses, no parcel within the site has been created within the past 10 years, and the site is situated so that:

(A) at least 75 percent of the perimeter of the site is adjacent to parcels that are developed with existing qualified urban uses at the time the lead agency receives an application for an approval; and (B) the remaining 25 percent of the perimeter of the site adjoins parcels that had been previously developed for qualified urban uses. (f) “Low- and moderate-income households” means “persons and families of low or moderate income” as defined in Section 50093 of the Health and Safety Code to mean persons and families whose income does not exceed 120 percent of area median income, adjusted for family size by the Department of Housing and Community Development, in accordance with adjustment factors adopted and amended from time to time by the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development pursuant to Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937. (g) “Low-income households” means households of persons and families of very low and low income, which are defined in Sections 50093 and 50105 of the Health and Safety Code as follows:

(1) “Persons and families of low income” or “persons of low income” is defined in Section 50093 of the Health & Safety Code to mean persons or families who are eligible for financial assistance specifically provided by a governmental agency for the benefit of occupants of housing financed pursuant to this division. (2) “Very low income households” is defined in Section 50105 of the Health & Safety Code to mean persons and families whose incomes do not exceed the qualifying limits for very low income families as established and amended from time to time pursuant to Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937. “Very low income households” includes extremely low income households, as defined in Section 50106 of the Health & Safety Code. (h) “Lower income households” is defined in Section 50079.5 of the Health and Safety Code to mean any of the following: (1) “Lower income households,” which means persons and families whose income does not exceed the qualifying limits for lower income families as established and amended from time to time pursuant to Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937.

(2) “Very low income households,” which means persons and families whose incomes do not exceed the qualifying limits for very low income families as established and amended from time to time pursuant to Section 8 of the United States Housing Act of 1937. (3) “Extremely low income households,” which means persons and families whose incomes do not exceed the qualifying limits for extremely low income families as established and amended from time to time by the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and defined in Section 5.603(b) of Title 24 of the Code of Federal Regulations. (i) “Major transit stop” means a site containing an existing rail transit station, a ferry terminal served by either a bus or rail transit service, or the intersection of two or more major bus routes with a frequency of service interval of 15 minutes or less during the morning and afternoon peak commute periods. (j) “Project-specific effect” means all the direct or indirect environmental effects of a project other than cumulative effects and growth-inducing effects.

(k) “Qualified urban use” means any residential, commercial, public institutional, transit or transportation passenger facility, or retail use, or any combination of those uses. (l) “Residential” means a use consisting of either of the following: (1) Residential units only. (2) Residential units and primarily neighborhood-serving goods, services, or retail uses that do not exceed 15 percent of the total floor area of the project. (m) “Urbanized area” means either of the following: (1) An incorporated city that either by itself or in combination with two contiguous incorporated cities has a population of at least 100,000 persons; or (2) An unincorporated area that meets the requirements set forth in subdivision (m)(2)(A) and subdivision (m)(2)(B) below. (A) The unincorporated area must meet one of the following location or density requirements:

1. The unincorporated area must be: (i) completely surrounded by one or more incorporated cities, (ii) have a population of at least 100,000 persons either by itself or in combination with the surrounding incorporated city or cities, and (iii) have a population density that at least equals the population density of the surrounding city or cities; or 2. The unincorporated area must be located within an urban growth boundary and have an existing residential population of at least 5,000 persons per square mile. For purposes of this subparagraph, an “urban growth boundary” means a provision of a locally adopted general plan that allows urban uses on one side of the boundary and prohibits urban uses on the other side. (B) The board of supervisors with jurisdiction over the unincorporated area must have taken the following steps:

1. The board has prepared a draft document by which the board would find that the general plan, zoning ordinance, and related policies and programs applicable to the unincorporated area are consistent with principles that: (i) encourage compact development in a manner that promotes efficient transportation systems, economic growth, affordable housing, energy efficiency, and an appropriate balance of jobs and housing, and (ii) protects the environment, open space, and agricultural areas. 2. The board has submitted the draft document to OPR and allowed OPR thirty days to submit comments on the draft findings to the board. 3. No earlier than thirty days after submitting the draft document to OPR, the board has adopted a final finding in substantial conformity with the draft finding described in the draft document referenced in subdivision (m)(2)(B)(1) above.
