(a) CEQA does not apply to a discretionary decision by an air quality management district for a project consisting of the application of coatings within an existing facility at an automotive manufacturing plant if the district finds all of the following: (1) The project will not cause a net increase in any emissions of any pollutant for which a national or state ambient air quality standard has been established after the internal emission accounting for previous emission reductions achieved at the facility and recognized by the district. (2) The project will not cause a net increase in adverse impacts of toxic air contaminants as determined by a health risk assessment. The term “net increase in adverse impacts of toxic air contaminants as determined by a health risk assessment” shall be determined in accordance with the rules and regulations of the district. (3) The project will not cause any other adverse effect on the environment.

(b) The district shall provide a 10-day notice, at the time of the issuance of the permit, of any such exemption. Notice shall be published in two newspapers of general circulation in the area of the project and shall be mailed to any person who makes a written request for such a notice. The notice shall state that the complete file on the project and the basis for the district's findings of exemption are available for inspection and copying at the office of the district.

(c) Any person may appeal the issuance of a permit based on an exemption under subdivision (a) to the hearing board as provided in Section 42302.1 of the Health and Safety Code. The permit shall be revoked by the hearing board if there is substantial evidence in light of the whole record before the board that the project may not satisfy one or more of the criteria established pursuant to subdivision (a). If there is no such substantial evidence, the exemption shall be upheld. Any appeal under this subdivision shall be scheduled for hearing on the calendar of the hearing board within 10 working days of the appeal being filed. The hearing board shall give the appeal priority on its calendar and shall render a decision on the appeal within 21 working days of the appeal being filed. The hearing board may delegate the authority to hear and decide such an appeal to a subcommittee of its body.
