Under exceptional circumstances, and when requested in writing by the lead agency, the State Clearinghouse in the Office of Planning and Research (OPR) may shorten the usual review periods for proposed negative declarations, mitigated negative declarations and draft EIRs submitted to the Clearinghouse. A request must be made by the decision-making body of the lead agency, or by a properly authorized representative of the decision-making body. A shortened review period may be granted when any of the following circumstances exist: (1) The lead agency is operating under an extension of the one-year period for completion of an EIR and would not otherwise be able to complete the EIR within the extended period. (2) The public project applicant is under severe time constraints with regard to obtaining financing or exercising options which cannot be met without shortening the review period. (3) The document is a supplement to a draft EIR or proposed negative declaration or mitigated negative declaration previously submitted to the State Clearinghouse. (4) The health and safety of the community would be at risk unless the project is approved expeditiously.

(5) The document is a revised draft EIR, or proposed negative declaration or mitigated negative declaration, where changes in the document are primarily the result of comments from agencies and the public. Shortened review cannot be provided to a draft EIR or proposed negative declaration or mitigated negative declaration which has already begun the usual review process. Prior to requesting shortened review, the lead agency should have already issued a notice of preparation and received comments from applicable State agencies, in the case of an EIR, or consulted with applicable State agencies, in the case of a proposed negative declaration or mitigated negative declaration. No shortened review period shall be granted unless the lead agency has contacted and obtained prior approval for a shortened review from the applicable state responsible and trustee agencies. No shortened review shall be granted for any project which is of statewide, regional, or areawide significance, as defined in Section 15206 of the guidelines.
