(a) The lead agency shall file a Notice of Determination within five working days after deciding to carry out or approve the project. (b) The notice of determination shall include: (1) An identification of the project including the project title as identified on the draft EIR, and the location of the project (either by street address and cross street for a project in an urbanized area or by attaching a specific map, preferably a copy of a U.S.G.S. 15′ or 7-1/2′ topographical map identified by quadrangle name). If the notice of determination is filed with the State Clearinghouse, the State Clearinghouse identification number for the draft EIR shall be provided. (2) A brief description of the project. (3) The lead agency's name, the applicant's name, if any, and the date on which the agency approved the project. If a responsible agency files the notice of determination pursuant to Section 15096(i), the responsible agency's name, the applicant's name, if any, and date of approval shall also be identified. (4) The determination of the agency whether the project in its approved form will have a significant effect on the environment.

(5) A statement that an EIR was prepared and certified pursuant to the provisions of CEQA. (6) Whether mitigation measures were made a condition of the approval of the project, and whether a mitigation monitoring plan/program was adopted. (7) Whether findings were made pursuant to Section 15091. (8) Whether a statement of overriding considerations was adopted for the project. (9) The address where a copy of the final EIR and the record of project approval may be examined. (10) If different from the applicant, the identity of the person undertaking the project which is supported, in whole or in part, through contracts, grants, subsidies, loans, or other forms of assistance from one or more public agencies or the identity of the person receiving a lease, permit, license, certificate, or other entitlement for use from one or more public agencies. (c) If the lead agency is a state agency, the lead agency shall file the notice of determination with the Office of Planning and Research within five working days after approval of the project by the lead agency.

(d) If the lead agency is a local agency, the local lead agency shall file the notice of determination with the county clerk of the county or counties in which the project will be located, within five working days after approval of the project by the lead agency. If the project requires discretionary approval from any state agency, the local lead agency shall also, within five working days of this approval, file a copy of the notice of determination with the Office of Planning and Research. (e) A notice of determination filed with the county clerk shall be available for public inspection and shall be posted within 24 hours of receipt for a period of at least 30 days. Thereafter, the clerk shall return the notice to the local lead agency with a notation of the period during which it was posted. The local lead agency shall retain the notice for not less than 12 months. (f) A notice of determination filed with the Office of Planning and Research shall be available for public inspection and shall be posted for a period of at least 30 days. The Office of Planning and Research shall retain each notice, for not less than 12 months.

(g) The filing of the notice of determination pursuant to subdivision (c) above for state agencies and the filing and posting of the notice of determination pursuant to subdivisions (d) and (e) above for local agencies, start a 30-day statute of limitations on court challenges to the approval under CEQA. (h) A sample notice of determination is provided in Appendix D. Each public agency may devise its own form, but any such form shall include, at a minimum, the information required by subdivision (b). Public agencies are encouraged to make copies of all notices filed pursuant to this section available in electronic format on the Internet. Such electronic notices are in addition to the posting requirements of the Guidelines and the Public Resources Code.
