I. Introduction Section 15183.3 provides a streamlined review process for infill projects that satisfy specified performance standards. This appendix contains those performance standards. The lead agency's determination that the project satisfies the performance standards shall be supported with substantial evidence, which should be documented on the Infill Checklist in Appendix N. Section II defines terms used in this Appendix. Performance standards that apply to all project types are set forth in Section III. Section IV contains performance standards that apply to particular project types (i.e., residential, commercial/retail, office building, transit stations, and schools). II. Definitions The following definitions apply to the terms used in this Appendix. “High-quality transit corridor” means an existing corridor with fixed route bus service with service intervals no longer than 15 minutes during peak commute hours. For the purposes of this Appendix, an “existing stop along a high-quality transit corridor” may include a planned and funded stop that is included in an adopted regional transportation improvement program.

Unless more specifically defined by an air district, city or county, “high-volume roadway” means freeways, highways, urban roads with 100,000 vehicles per day, or rural roads with 50,000 vehicles per day. “Low vehicle travel area” means a traffic analysis zone that exhibits a below average existing level of travel as determined using a regional travel demand model. For residential projects, travel refers to either home-based or household vehicle miles traveled per capita. For commercial and retail projects, travel refers to non-work attraction trip length; however, where such data are not available, commercial projects reference either home-based or household vehicle miles traveled per capita. For office projects, travel refers to commute attraction vehicle miles traveled per employee; however, where such data are not available, office projects reference either home-based or household vehicle miles traveled per capita.

“Major Transit Stop” means a site containing an existing rail transit station, a ferry terminal served by either a bus or rail transit service, or the intersection of two or more major bus routes with frequencies of service intervals of 15 minutes or less during the morning and afternoon peak commute periods. For the purposes of this Appendix, an “existing major transit stop” may include a planned and funded stop that is included in an adopted regional transportation improvement program. “Office building” generally refers to centers for governmental or professional services; however, the lead agency shall have discretion in determining whether a project is “commercial” or “office building” for the purposes of this Appendix based on local zoning codes. “Significant sources of air pollution” include airports, marine ports, rail yards and distribution centers that receive more than 100 heavy-duty truck visits per day, as well as stationary sources that are designated major by the Clean Air Act. A “Traffic Analysis Zone” is an analytical unit used by a travel demand model to estimate vehicle travel within a region. III. Performance Standards Related to Project Design

To be eligible for streamlining pursuant to Section 15183.3, a project must implement all of the following: Renewable Energy. All non-residential projects shall include on-site renewable power generation, such as solar photovoltaic, solar thermal and wind power generation, or clean back-up power supplies, where feasible. Residential projects are also encouraged to include such on-site renewable power generation. Soil and Water Remediation. If the project site is included on any list compiled pursuant to Section 65962.5 of the Government Code, the project shall document how it has remediated the site, if remediation is completed. Alternatively, the project shall implement the recommendations provided in a preliminary endangerment assessment or comparable document that identifies remediation appropriate for the site.

Residential Units Near High-Volume Roadways and Stationary Sources. If a project includes residential units located within 500 feet, or other distance determined to be appropriate by the local agency or air district based on local conditions, of a high volume roadway or other significant sources of air pollution, the project shall comply with any policies and standards identified in the local general plan, specific plan, zoning code or community risk reduction plan for the protection of public health from such sources of air pollution. If the local government has not adopted such plans or policies, the project shall include measures, such as enhanced air filtration and project design, that the lead agency finds, based on substantial evidence, will promote the protection of public health from sources of air pollution. Those measure may include, among others, the recommendations of the California Air Resources Board, air districts, and the California Air Pollution Control Officers Association. IV. Additional Performance Standards by Project Type In addition to the project features described above in Section III, specific eligibility requirements are provided below by project type.

Several of the performance standards below refer to “low vehicle travel areas”. Such areas can be illustrated on maps based on data developed by the regional Metropolitan Planning Organization (MPO) using its regional travel demand model. Several of the performance standards below refer to distance to transit. Distance should be calculated so that at least 75 percent of the surface area of the project site is within the specified distance. A. Residential To be eligible for streamlining pursuant to Section 15183.3, a project must satisfy one of the following: Projects achieving below average regional per capita vehicle miles traveled (VMT). A residential project is eligible if it is located in a “low vehicle travel area” within the region. Projects located within ½ mile of an Existing Major Transit Stop or High Quality Transit Corridor. A residential project is eligible if it is located within ½ mile of an existing major transit stop or an existing stop along a high quality transit corridor.

Low-Income Housing. A residential or mixed-use project consisting of 300 or fewer residential units all of which are affordable to low income households is eligible if the developer of the development project provides sufficient legal commitments to the lead agency to ensure the continued availability and use of the housing units for lower income households, as defined in Section 50079.5 of the Health and Safety Code, for a period of at least 30 years, at monthly housing costs, as determined pursuant to Section 50053 of the Health and Safety Code. B. Commercial/Retail To be eligible for streamlining pursuant to Section 15183.3, a project must satisfy one of the following: Regional Location. A commercial project with no single-building floor-plate greater than 50,000 square feet is eligible if it locates in a “low vehicle travel area.” Proximity to Households. A project with no single-building floor-plate greater than 50,000 square feet located within one-half mile of 1800 households is eligible. C. Office Building To be eligible for streamlining pursuant to Section 15183.3, a project must satisfy one of the following:

Regional Location. Office buildings, both commercial and public, are eligible if they locate in a low vehicle travel area. Proximity to a Major Transit Stop. Office buildings, both commercial and public, within ½ mile of an existing major transit stop, or ¼ mile of an existing stop along a high quality transit corridor, are eligible. D. Transit Transit stations, as defined in Section 15183.3(e)(1), are eligible. E. Schools Elementary schools within one mile of fifty percent of the projected student population are eligible. Middle schools and high schools within two miles of fifty percent of the projected student population are eligible. Alternatively, any school within ½ mile of an existing major transit stop or an existing stop along a high quality transit corridor is eligible. Additionally, in order to be eligible, all schools shall provide parking and storage for bicycles and scooters and shall comply with the requirements in Sections 17213, 17213.1 and 17213.2 of the California Education Code. F. Small Walkable Community Projects

Small walkable community projects, as defined in Section 15183.3, subdivision (e)(6), that implement the project features described in Section III above are eligible. G. Mixed-Use Projects Where a project includes some combination of residential, commercial and retail, office building, transit station, and/or schools, the performance standards in this Section that apply to the predominant use shall govern the entire project.
