(a) For purposes of this section, the following definitions are applicable. (1) “Low-level flight path” means any flight path for any aircraft owned, maintained, or that is under the jurisdiction of the United States Department of Defense that flies lower than 1,500 feet above ground level, as indicated in the United States Department of Defense Flight Information Publication, “Area Planning Military Training Routes: North and South America (AP/1B)” published by the United States National Imagery and Mapping Agency, or its successor, as of the date the military service gives written notification to a lead agency pursuant to subdivision (b). (2) “Military impact zone” means any area, including airspace, that meets both of the following criteria: (A) Is within two miles of a military installation, including, but not limited to, any base, military airport, camp, post, station, yard, center, homeport facility for a ship, or any other military activity center that is under the jurisdiction of the United States Department of Defense; and (B) Covers greater than 500 acres of unincorporated land, or greater than 100 acres of city incorporated land.

(3) “Military service” means the United States Department of Defense or any branch of the United States Armed Forces. (4) “Special use airspace” means the land area underlying the airspace that is designated for training, research, development, or evaluation for a military service, as that land area is established by the United States Department of Defense Flight Information Publication, “Area Planning: Special Use Airspace: North and South America (AP/1A)” published by the United States National Imagery and Mapping Agency, or its successor, as of the date the military service gives written notification to a lead agency pursuant to subdivision (b).

(b) A military service may give written notification to a lead agency of the specific boundaries of a low-level flight path, military impact zone, or special use airspace, and provide the lead agency, in writing, the military contact office and address for the military service. If the notice references the specific boundaries of a low-level flight path, such notification must include a copy of the applicable United States Department of Defense Flight Information Publication, “Area Planning Military Training Routes: North and South America (AP/1B).” If the notice references the specific boundaries of a special use airspace, such notification must include a copy of the applicable United States Department of Defense Flight Information Publication, “Area Planning: Special Use Airspace: North and South America (AP/1A).”

(c) If a military service provides the written notification specified in subdivision (b) of this section, a lead agency must include the specified military contact office in the list of organizations and individuals receiving a notice of intent to adopt a negative declaration or a mitigated negative declaration pursuant to Section 15072, in the list of organizations and individuals receiving a notice of preparation of an EIR pursuant to Section 15082, and in the list of organizations and individuals receiving a notice of availability of a draft EIR pursuant to Section 15087 for any project that meets all of the criteria specified below: (1) The project to be carried out or approved by the lead agency is within the boundaries specified in subdivision (b). (2) The project is one of the following: (A) a project that includes a general plan amendment; or (B) a project that is of statewide, regional, or areawide significance; or (C) a project that relates to a public use airport and the area surrounding such airport which is required to be referred to the airport land use commission, or appropriately designated body, pursuant to Sections 21670-21679.5 of the Public Utilities Code.

(3) The project is not one of the actions described below. A lead agency does not need to send to the specified military contact office a notice of intent to adopt a negative declaration or a mitigated negative declaration, a notice of preparation of an EIR, or a notice of availability of a draft EIR for such actions. (A) a response action taken pursuant to Chapter 6.8 (commencing with Section 25300) of Division 20 of the Health and Safety Code. (B) a response action taken pursuant to Chapter 6.85 (commencing with Section 25396) of Division 20 of the Health and Safety Code. (C) a project undertaken at a site in response to a corrective action order issued pursuant to Section 25187 of the Health and Safety Code. The lead agency shall send the specified military contact office a notice of intent or a notice of availability sufficiently prior to adoption or certification of the environmental documents by the lead agency to allow the military service the review period provided under Section 15105. (d) The effect or potential effect that a project may have on military activities does not itself constitute an adverse effect on the environment for the purposes of CEQA.
