(a) The lead agency shall file a notice of determination within five working days after deciding to carry out or approve the project. For projects with more than one phase, the lead agency shall file a notice of determination for each phase requiring a discretionary approval. (b) The notice of determination shall include: (1) An identification of the project including the project title as identified on the proposed negative declaration, its location, and the State Clearinghouse identification number for the proposed negative declaration if the notice of determination is filed with the State Clearinghouse. (2) A brief description of the project. (3) The agency's name, the applicant's name, if any, and the date on which the agency approved the project. (4) The determination of the agency that the project will not have a significant effect on the environment. (5) A statement that a negative declaration or a mitigated negative declaration was adopted pursuant to the provisions of CEQA. (6) A statement indicating whether mitigation measures were made a condition of the approval of the project, and whether a mitigation monitoring plan/program was adopted.

(7) The address where a copy of the negative declaration or mitigated negative declaration may be examined. (8) The identity of the person undertaking a project which is supported, in whole or in part, through contracts, grants, subsidies, loans, or other forms of assistance from one or more public agencies or the identity of the person receiving a lease, permit, license, certificate, or other entitlement for use from one or more public agencies. (c) If the lead agency is a state agency, the lead agency shall file the notice of determination with the Office of Planning and Research within five working days after approval of the project by the lead agency. (d) If the lead agency is a local agency, the local agency shall file the notice of determination with the county clerk of the county or counties in which the project will be located within five working days after approval of the project by the lead agency. If the project requires discretionary approval from any state agency, the local lead agency shall also, within five working days of this approval, file a copy of the notice of determination with the Office of Planning and Research.

(e) A notice of determination filed with the county clerk shall be available for public inspection and shall be posted by the county clerk within 24 hours of receipt for a period of at least 30 days. Thereafter, the clerk shall return the notice to the local lead agency with a notation of the period during which it was posted. The local lead agency shall retain the notice for not less than 12 months. (f) A notice of determination filed with the Office of Planning and Research shall be available for public inspection and shall be posted for a period of at least 30 days. The Office of Planning and Research shall retain each notice for not less than 12 months. (g) The filing of the notice of determination pursuant to subdivision (c) above for state agencies and the filing and posting of the notice of determination pursuant to subdivisions (d) and (e) above for local agencies, start a 30-day statute of limitations on court challenges to the approval under CEQA. (h) A sample Notice of Determination is provided in Appendix D. Each public agency may devise its own form, but the minimum content requirements of subdivision (b) above shall be met.

Public agencies are encouraged to make copies of all notices filed pursuant to this section available in electronic format on the Internet. Such electronic notices are in addition to the posting requirements of these guidelines and the Public Resources Code.
