What kinds of environmental documents to submit to the State Clearinghouse, how to file documents, submission requirements, review process information, and accessibility requirements.

State and federal agencies must comply with all applicable statutory and regulatory requirements related to the Americans with Disabilities Act for documents posted and made available on internet websites. Local agencies must comply with all applicable statutory and regulatory requirements related to the Americans with Disabilities Act for documents posted and made available on internet websites. The Governor’s Office of Land Use and Climate Innovation (LCI) accepts no responsibility for the content or accessibility of CEQA documents and accompanying attachments; LCI posts documents in the manner it receives them. LCI does not control the content of external, third-party documents submitted to us. For more information, please visit LCI’s Accessibility page.

In March 2019, the Governor’s Office of Land Use and Climate Innovation (LCI), State Clearinghouse Unit (SCH) launched CEQA Submit and the updated version of CEQAnet. Together, the two online platforms serve as the new way to submit and publish Environmental Documents and Notices. As of November 3, 2020, the SCH stopped accepting emails and hardcopies of environmental Documents and now require that all agencies submit documents via CEQA Submit for publication to CEQAnet. Upon receipt of documents to CEQA Submit, SCH staff reviews and then publishes those documents to CEQAnet. Upon publication, a confirmation is emailed and anyone can then use CEQAnet to access those documents. It only posts electronic copies of original documents received March 2019 and later, but it houses records of all CEQA documents the SCH has ever received.

Please go to CEQA Submit and choose “Create an Account” to get started. If you are already registered, enter in your work email and you will receive a temporary key to log on.

The State Clearinghouse (SCH) must receive all the following types of Environmental Documents (California Code of Regulations, Title 14): All Notices of Preparation (NOPs) of Draft Environmental Impact Reports (EIR) Draft Environmental Impact Reports (EIR), Negative Declarations, and all other Environmental Documents (reference NOC subtypes) prepared by State agencies Draft Environmental Documents prepared by a lead where a State agency is a Responsible Agency, Trustee Agency, or otherwise has jurisdiction by law with respect to the project Draft Environmental Documents on projects identified as being of statewide, regional, or areawide significance (CEQA Guidelines Section 15206) Draft Environmental Impact Statements, Environmental Assessments, and Findings of No Significant Impact (FONSI) prepared pursuant to NEPA (Title 40 CFR, Part 1500, commencing with Section 1500.1). Please refer to PRC Sections 21082.1 and Sections 15205-6 of the most recent CEQA Guidelines for more information on filing requirements.

Additionally, the Senate Bill 375 CEQA Provision Flowcharts provide more information on project-specific filing requirements, as does LCI’s technical advisory on submitting documents to the State Clearinghouse. Notices of Determination (NODs) and Notices of Exemption (NOEs): Beginning January 1, 2024, Senate Bill (SB) 69 (Cortese, 2023) will require that local agencies electronically file all NODs with LCI in addition to the county clerk of the county where the project will be located. Additionally, SB 69 requires local agencies filing NOEs with the local county clerk to also file with LCI. (See Public Resources Code section 21152.) When you use the statutory exemptions contained in PRC Sections 22159.22, 21159.23, or 21159.24, you must file an NOE must be filed pursuant to PRC 21152.1. Check the language of the statutory exemption to see if a NOE is required.

Note on Cal Cannabis Permits: For permits related to cannabis cultivation, manufacturing, or other commercial activity, CEQA review is typically done at the local level first, as part of a city or county’s local review process for a discretionary permit. Evidence of this local CEQA compliance is then submitted to the relevant State licensing authority as part of the license application. Please see the regulations of the relevant State licensing authority for information about the CEQA review process that authority conducts when considering a license application.

For Draft Environmental Impact Reports (EIRs) only: lead agency prepares and submits the Notice of Preparation (NOP) to the State Clearinghouse (SCH). The State Clearinghouse assigns a unique identification number, and the NOP undergoes 30-day minimum review period. Refer to CEQA Guidelines Section 15082 for more information on NOPs Lead agency prepares the Draft Environmental Document Lead agency submits the Draft Document and other required attachments to the SCH via CEQA Submit Upon publication, the SCH assigns a unique SCH identification number (unless document is published under existing SCH#) and the review period begins. Refer to CEQA Guidelines Section 15105 for specific review period lengths If the project already has a SCH identification number from a previous document submittal, the lead agency should submit under the previously assigned SCH State review agencies comment on the Draft Document within the State review period. The SCH makes State agency comments available on CEQAnet. Reviewing agencies are responsible for forwarding comments to the lead and the SCH.

The lead agency considers comments and decides on whether to approve a project (CEQA Guidelines Section 15044). If the project is approved, the lead agency files a Notice of Determination (NOD) (CEQA Guidelines Section 15075, 15094 and 15096(i)). Local agencies must file the NOD within five working days after deciding to carry out or approve the project with the County Clerk of the County the project will be in; Beginning January 1, 2024, Senate Bill (SB) 69 (Cortese, 2023) will require that local agencies electronically file all NODs with LCI in addition to the county clerk of the county where the project will be located. State agencies must file NOD within five working days after deciding to carry out or approve the project with the SCH. The lead agency files the approved/certified Final Document. The Final does not go under a review period unless the Lead indicates it wants it to go under review.

Once the SCH publishes a document submission, the submitter of that document no longer has access to make changes. To make changes to a published project, individuals must email the requested changes to state.clearinghouse@lci.ca.gov and include the SCH number of the project that needs to be updated. The SCH requests that lead agencies provide a memo on official letterhead confirming/explaining the changes to the submission. For extended review requests, agencies should provide an updated Notice of Intent (NOI) or Notice of Availability (NOA). The SCH cannot remove attachments once they have been published but can post updated or corrected attachments.

Under exceptional circumstances, the SCH may shorten the normal review periods for Draft Negative Declarations and Environmental Impact Reports (EIRs) prior to the start of the State review period. To request a shortened review period, the lead agency must: Email the SCH with a completed Shortened Review Request Form, the Draft Environmental Document, and a completed Notice of Completion (NOC) Form prior to submission of the Draft document The request form must identify which of the five criteria in Appendix K of the CEQA Guidelines are met for this project (CEQA Guidelines Section 15205(d)) and explain why the shortened review is necessary and identify prior approval from Responsible and Trustee state agencies (Public Resources Code Section 21091(e)). File the Draft Environmental Document – accompanied by the completed Shortened Review Request Form and NOC form via CEQA Submit – after the SCH approves the email request

Includes Environmental Impact Reports (EIRs), Negative Declarations (NDs/MNDs), and all other Notice of Completion (NOC) subtypes. Please include all the following materials in the “Attachments” section in CEQA Submit: Draft/Final Environmental Document Note: if your Final is not going under review, the NOC form and Summary Form are optional uploads to supplement your Final Document. Initial Study (IS) Notice of Availability (NOA) OR Notice of Intent (NOI) LCI does not have a standardized Notice of Intent (NOI) or Availability (NOA) form. Each lead agency may devise its own form, but the lead agency must meet the minimum content requirements pursuant to CEQA Guidelines Section 15072 and 15087.You can refer to this example of a Notice of Intent (NOI) and example of a Notice of Availability (NOA) that the SCH received from lead agencies. Notice of Completion & Environmental Document Transmittal (NOC) form LCI Summary Form See also LCI’s CEQA Technical Advisory on Submitting CEQA Documents to the State Clearinghouse for more information on Draft and Final Environmental Documents.

Noc Subtype Description NOA Notice of Availability NOI Notice of Intent CON Early Consultation Notice NOP Notice of Preparation (of an EIR) EIR Draft Environmental Impact Report SIR Supplemental EIR SBE Subsequent EIR Neg Dec/ND Negative Declaration MND Mitigated Negative Declaration FED Functional Equivalent Document SCEA Sustainable Communities Environmental Assessment RAN Request for Advanced Notification EA Draft Environmental Assessment EIS Draft Environmental Impact Statement FONSI Finding of No Significant Impact MEA Master Environmental Assessment SEA Supplemental Environmental Assessment SIS Revised/Supplemental Impact Statement TRI Tribal Compact Environmental Evaluation BIA-LA Bureau of Indian Affairs Notice of Land Acquisition BIA-ND Bureau of Indian Affairs Notice of Decision NDE Notice of Decision ADM Addendum FIS Final Environmental Statement JD Joint Document FIN Final Document REV Revised FYI Informational RC Response to Comments ROD Record of Decision OTH Other type (none of the above)

Please include all the following materials in the “Attachments” section in CEQA Submit: Notice of Preparation (NOP) form Notice of Completion (NOC) form Additional references to the NOP Refer to the most recent CEQA Guidelines Section 15082 for more information on NOPs.

Beginning January 1, 2024, Senate Bill (SB) 69 (Cortese, 2023) will require that local agencies electronically file all NODs with LCI in addition to the county clerk of the county where the project will be located. Please include all the following materials in the “Attachments” section in CEQA Submit: Notice of Determination (NOD) form Additional references to the NOD Notice of Determination (NOD) Fee and Filing Refer to CEQA Guidelines Sections 15075, 15094 and 15096(i) for more information on NODs.

Please refer to the California Department of Fish and Wildlife (CDFW) website for information on paying CRP fees.

Beginning January 1, 2024, Senate Bill (SB) 69 (Cortese, 2023) requires local agencies filing NOEs with the local county clerk of the county where the project will be located, to also file with LCI. Please include all the following materials in the “Attachments” section in CEQA Submit: Notice of Exemption (NOE) form Additional references to the NOE Refer to CEQA Guidelines Section 15061-2 for more information on NOEs.

LCI is responsible for implementing Presidential Executive Order (E.O.) 12372. This E.O. requires federal agencies to use State and local processes for intergovernmental coordination. LCI is available to assist federal agencies with review of NEPA documents and associated intergovernmental coordination. CEQA allows for use of NEPA documents in place of CEQA documents. Submission through LCI is required to use those provisions. See CEQA Guidelines Section 15225(2). Please refer to the Submission Requirements for Draft/Final Environmental Documents for NEPA Federal document submission requirements.

State Clearinghouse Forms for submissions. Notice of Exemption (NOE) CEQA exempts from environmental review certain classes of projects specified in the CEQA Statute or Guidelines. This notice informs LCI and/or the county clerk that the public agency has determined that a project is exempt from CEQA review. CEQA Guidelines, Section 15062 discusses the content requirements. Notice of Determination (NOD) Lead and responsible agencies are required to notify LCI and/or the county clerk when they make a determination to approve a project subject to CEQA. CEQA Guidelines, Sections 15075, 15094, and 15096 outline the content requirements. Notice of Completion & Environmental Document Transmittal (NOC) Lead agencies are required to notify LCI as soon as a Draft EIR is complete. If state review is required, the NOC must accompany the required electronic EIR submission. CEQA Guidelines, Section 15085 discusses the requirement. LCI requires the NOC transmittal form with all environmental document submissions (i.e. Negative Declaration, Mitigated Negative Declaration, etc.).

Notice of Preparation (NOP) This notice informs the public of the lead agency’s intent to prepare an EIR. CEQA Guidelines, Section 15082 discusses the required contents. Summary Form Lead agencies should include this document when submitting electronic copies of Environmental Impact Reports, Negative Declarations, Mitigated Negative Declarations, or Notices of Preparation to the State Clearinghouse (SCH). The SCH also accepts other summaries, such as EIR Executive Summaries prepared pursuant to CEQA Guidelines Section 15123. CEQA Appendix G/Initial Study Checklist Updated Appendix G approved by the Office of Administrative Law on December 2018. Shortened Review Request Public Resources Code, Section 21091 allows for shortened review periods under certain circumstances. Additional information on the shortened review process and requirements is provided in the SCH Handbook. The Shortened Review Request is available to ensure that the requesting agency provides all the information necessary for the SCH to make a determination. However, use of this specific form is not a requirement of CEQA.

Helpful resources to understand and navigate State Clearinghouse processes. CEQAnet A database of CEQA documents filed with the SCH since 1980. CEQASubmit The new online platform in which users submit CEQA and other environmental documents and notices to the SCH. Log in or register to submit here. Annual Filings Through the SCH A summary of CEQA and other environmental documents the SCH received between 1999-current year. Submitting CEQA Documents to the SCH Technical advisory that provides more information on submitting draft and final environmental documents to the SCH. Submitting CEQA Documents to the State Clearinghouse Under AB 819 An updated technical advisory that provides guidance on submitting CEQA documents and notices to the SCH under AB 819, enacted January 1, 2022.

Helpful resources on complying with and understanding CEQA. California Code of Regulations The California Code of Regulations (CCR) is the official compilation and publication of the regulations adopted, amended, or repealed by state agencies pursuant to the Administrative Procedure Act (APA). CEQA Guidelines are housed under Title 14, Division 6, Chapter 3, Sections 15000– 15387. CEQA Statutes and Guidelines Summaries of relevant legislation and court cases and notations of authority cited within the CEQA Guidelines. Always refer to the most recent CEQA Statutes and Guidelines. California Public Resources Code CEQA Statutes begins at Section 21000. California Legislative Information Code Section Database to access a complete list of California law codes and bill information.

Cal Cannabis Information For permits related to cannabis cultivation, manufacturing, or other commercial activity, CEQA review is typically done at the local level first, as part of a city or county’s local review process for a discretionary permit. Evidence of this local CEQA compliance is then submitted to the relevant state licensing authority as part of the license application. Please see the regulations of the relevant state licensing authority for information about the CEQA review process that authority conducts when considering a license application. NEPA.gov Find information on the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA). Code of Federal Regulations Directory of official publications from all three branches of the federal government. The National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) is our basic national charter for protection of the environment; Title 40 – Protection of Environment, Chapter V – Council On Environmental Quality Part 1500 – Purpose, Policy, and Mandate Section 1500.1 – Purpose. CEQA Fees IMPORTANT: Checks from State Lead Agencies must be made out to CDFW but should be delivered to the SCH

For more information, please contact us at state.clearinghouse@lci.ca.gov
